layout:       post  
title:        Template  
subtitle:     Introductory text, limited to 45 characters  
categories:   demo markdown  
author:       Git User  
image:        for-the-index-page.jpg  
date:         2012-01-01 11:23  

This file demonstrates how to arrange post content. For the use of
[markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/dingus) itself, please see the
other [examples](.).

<!-- this is a HTML comment. It can span one line, or several,
     and will not appear in the browser when rendered as HTML -->

A special 'more' comment tag marks the end of content that should be previewed on
the blog index page, and where the 'Read More' link will be shown.

<!-- more -->

> Note: If you're previewing this file as rendered markdown in github,
>       you can use the `Raw` button to directly view the markdown source.


## This is a H2 heading

Posts automatically start with the title rendered as a H1 heading.  Therefore, your post
should only use subheadings of level 2 and greater.

The subtitle (or "standfirst") will be shown on the main page, and truncated if longer
than 45 characters. It's inclusion here is optional, as it will normally be written after
the article's submission.


## Page and Site links

Use a relative URL when linking to other pages on this site, or page and [post
assets](2012-01-04-octopress.md#post-assets).

- Here's a link to the [about page](/about), and a [page image](image.jpg).

Use liquid markup to embed the full URL to this site, usually to display it as text.

- The full URL of [this site]({{ site.url }}) is: {{ site.url }}.

These methods will keep your links up to date, should the location of the post or site
ever change.


## More Examples

See the [examples](.) folder for more uses of markdown and octopress syntax.
